# Family Graphic Files

If you are trying to publish a classic *The Sims* household from the original game, then go into the following directory `C:\Program Files\Maxis\The Sims\UserData\Web Pages\`

Inside this directory is a web-based export of all your existing families you've played.  This is where and how the inspiration for this web application came from, and the `index.html` shares almost all the same HTML code to bring those old web pages to the modern web.  As those original HTML files no longer work in modern web browsers, I've tested it in *Firefox*, so it may very well work in Chrome, who knows.

Anyways, so open up the household, be sure it's the one with the full lot info in the title of the folder, as this will have all the images needed for everything to work, then copy the entire `FamilyGFX` folder into this folder, and just rename it to the family name for that household.

The final glue is to hand add all the stats into the `SimsDB.json` file, which isn't as difficult as it sounds, just open the various HTML files in the Web Pages folder and copy out the data, this took me about 15 minutes.  If you have an older supported browser laying around like *Internet Explorer 6*, then you can just open those HTML files in a browser making the copy and paste less of a pain.  I am hoping to soon have a desktop-based program to make generating an error-proof JSON file easier, and the original idea of this **SimsDB** was for it to be a desktop application, so by extension this web-based thing from that perspective is technically the extension to what the desktop application will be.  Think of this **SimsWeb** as a way to show your Sims Database to the wider world, as the Database program itself will only contain an *export* feature, allowing a subset of the database to be exported to the web.  As an example, say you created a challenge, and needed to use some of the stats in the game to generate results.  Well, by having a fully glorified Sims Database like this, you can perform a filter like `COOKING > 7` for example to see which sims have that cooking skill during the challenge.  These types of calculations can be performed on any stat, and these calculations can even be calculated after the export within the Sims web database too!  So, say a user to the challenge board wants to filter the admin filter even further, they can as well to continue drilling down on the data.
